Global comments
(1) Please use a common subsection numbering throughout. I find it really confusing to
have to look for Remark 2.7 in section 2.3, then followed by Theorem 1.1. Instead,
I’d rather look up for example Remark 2.2.7 and Theorem 2.2.8 in section 2.2 (the
latter repeating Theorem 1.2.1).

Aaron: I did this, though we now have subsection 3.1 and 4.1 to keep the numbering consistent

(2) You give parts of several (counter)examples, but no complete nontrivial example of
one of the rings you describe is given. Please give at least one.

Response - We have now added in a detailed example at the end of subsection 2.2
Aaron: Robin and Peter, could you take a look at this new example and catch any typos/errors?



Section 1
(5) Page 1, line 1, “generalized canonical ring”: This is poor terminology: there’s nothing
canonical about it. They are homogeneous coordinate rings associated to divisors,
maybe. You don’t need a dummy variable in the definition of R(X, D) as a graded
ring, although you may like to include it later for clarity when writing out explicit
monomials and the like.

Aaron: I have changed this to section ring - this is an important change, so make sure I didn't miss any instances

(6) Page 1, paragraph 1: Your first paragraph basically repeats your abstract, which
doesn’t really welcome people into your paper like it should. There are many styles
of introduction, but the most successful ones are those that start as nontechnically as
possible, relating work to something common that mathematicians would recognize,
and then specializing to the main result. Though difficult to write, I strongly encour-
age you to consider this kind of narrative rather than just adding more precision to
the abstract.

(7) Page 1, paragraphs 2–3: “gives similar descriptions”, “has connections to”, and “an-
other closely related topic” are too vague, especially given that you are close to more
precise immediately afterwards. I think what you mean to do in these opening para-
graphs is to discuss the pursuit of explicit homogeneous coordinate rings for varieties,
mentioning recent results, and then pointing to your own. This would be more useful.

(10) Section 1.2: Well, m ∈ Z ≥0 , right? Wait, is m = 0 allowed for P m ? When extending
scalars, it is usual to write e.g. V ⊗ F K not K ⊗ F V even though the scalars are
written on the left; so I’d write just Div X ⊗ Q. What is X? State that you are
working over an algebraically closed field from the beginning, since it is behind some
of your earlier notation. The floor is the divisor bDc. And do you really need all of
this notation before I can even read your theorem? Seems like it is important to be
precise for the rest of the paper, but if you could pare this down, and define what
you need in the situation where it arises, that would be kinder to the reader. 
statement about base change is not setting up notation, so it is confusing to jam it in
here: 

Aaron: I didn't look at the first part, but made a response to the second part of this comment below

Your
also, I worry about if k is not a perfect field what happens under an inseparable
extension (divisors may become a power of a divisor). Did you mean characteristic
zero? You made this restriction when considering Kodaira dimension 1 surfaces.

Response to the second part on base change - 
We believe that purely inseparable extensions pose
no addition issue. The point is that cohomology commutes with flat base change, and extensions of fields
are always flat, so the dimensions of the graded pieces of the ring will be preserved. Therefore generators
and relations are preserved under arbitrary base field extension. Of course,
canonical divisors of root stacks may not behave well with respect to base change as is noted in voight and zureick-brown's book,
which is why this may cause problems if one wanted to consider some ring associated to something related to the canonical divisor.
But, for the purposes of this article, we fix a divisor on a curve over some base field, and the structure of that particular section
ring is unchanged upon base change to the algebraic closure.


(13) Theorem 1.1, why do you repeat that D i is an integral divisor? Instead of reduced
form, say gcd(c i , k i ) = 1.
Theorem 1.3, “define D i := V (f i )”: This is not the definition of D i , and this use of
colonequals in a theorem confuses me. I think of it like in computer science, where you
instantiate P
a variable, like let i := 3, and j := i 2 . I don’t think it makes sense to say
“Let D = i α i D i ”—actually, am I supposed to worry that there is no colonequals
here? so it should be treated differently?—and then “define D i := V (f i )”. I think
you mean let f i ∈ k[x 0 , . . . , x m ] be such that D i = V (f i ), and no colonequals. Also,
why do you write lcm j6 = i (k j ), not giving indices, but max 0≤i≤n (a i )? Either you’re OK
with it being clear from context, or you’re note and you should be precise in all cases.
(When in doubt, opt for the latter.)

(14) Theorem 1.3, why do you use the expression “Now” in the theorem? This seems like
an important assumption in your theorem! You should explain that it really isn’t,
in that you can take ghost divisors. To stress this point, I would suggest stating a
theorem that does not depend on this hypothesis (assume the worst case that no f i
is linear, and add m hyperplanes) as a corollary, perhaps in the main body if you’re
feeling in a rush in the introduction. Also, I had to read the statement a couple of
times, tripping over “linear polynomials in x 0 , . . . , x m ”: you just mean a i = 1, right?
I’m also confused about this, since there is nothing special about your coordinates in
the statement, and so after a change of coordinates you can assume without loss of
generality that D i = V (x i ) for i = 0, . . . , m, allowing α i = 0. In other words, if you
didn’t name your coordinates x 0 , . . . , x m to begin with, why couldn’t I just take the
f i satisfying your hypothesis instead as coordinates?

(18) Theorem 1.5: Same comments about coordinates and linear polynomials. Actually,
I feel like pointing out that your hypothesis is equivalent to asking that {f 1 , . . . , f n }
generate the homogeneous coordinate ring associated to O(1)—could you parlay this
into a more conceptual grounding for this hypothesis? Maybe that’s too hypothetical,
in which case, just “normalize” your divisors by asking that f 1 = u, . . . , f 4 = w.
(19) Theorem 1.5: Give a name to the bound on the degrees, so you don’t have to repeat
it in the relations, and then it’s clear that you’re just multiplying by 2. (It would be
great to do the same for the other theorems.)

Section 2
(22) Is the notation in section 1.2 still in force in section 2? I’d really prefer the notation to
be given here, where the paper “really starts”, rather than partly in the introduction
and partly here.

(23) Proposition 2.1: romanize your conditions (1)–(3), they should not be italicized.

Aaron: Aren't they romanized here? Compare to conditions (1) and (2) in 2.2.4.

(24) Proof of Proposition 2.1: You mean (1)–(3), not (1-3). I could not follow the last
sentence, why does the assumption that f 0 , . . . , f m are a basis of linear forms have to
do with condition (3)? How do you know that the floors line up so that (1) is satisfied,
if you take this basis? Take m = 1 and f 0 = x 0 and f 1 = x 1 standard coordinates,
and D = D 0 + D 1 = (0) + (∞). What do you mean by “all monomials in f 0 , . . . , f m
of degree degbd(deg D)c form a basis of degree degbdDc rational functions? Is the
answer for d = 1 supposed to be x 0 , x 1 ? I would think it is x 0 /x 1 , x 1 /x 0 , so then
what does this have to do with monomials in x 0 , x 1 ? And then what happens when
you add weird fractions?

Response - You're right that this was poorly phrased, and we have tried to clarify this now.
The point is that the later coordinates are fixed, and we are only varying f_0, \ldots, f_m, so
the resulting monomials will be independent because products of the f_i are, but see the updated proof in the paper for
a clarified proof.

(25) Definition 2.4: is this an ordering? You define a relation, but never explicitly claim
it will say induce a term order on monomials.

Response - it is not an ordering, only a partial ordering (which we have now stated)

(26) Theorem 2.5: give a reference for Hirzebruch–Jung continued fraction, they are not
totally standard. The formatting of F i ~v is extremely hard to read, and there is a
notation clash 0 ≤ i ≤ r, ~v . Say “the ideal of relations is generated by”. Is there a
way to tell which kind of relation arises in (1)? Is it determined by the condition in
parentheses? If so, you should say “there is a relation of the form” and use a case
environment. What are G ~v i,j , w ~ and L ~v i,j , w ~ ? Are these the definition of the corresponding
relations, which are zero in R D belonging to the ideal?

(27) Proof of Theorem 2.5, paragraph 1, “the general can”: missing “case”. I’m not sure
if you’re allowed to prove a special case and then argue that the general case holds
by analogy. Why won’t you just prove the statement of your theorem? Is it as easy
as you say? If so, why not do it? If not, why should I believe your analogy?

Response: good point, we should have done a reduction instead of claiming it was analogous, we have now done this

(28) Proof of Theorem 2.5, paragraph 2, line 2: the set only contains one element.

Response - wouldn't there be something like $\binom{m + c_1- 1}{c_1} \rfloor$ elements? For example, if
we take $\alpha = 1$, and $H = V(x_0)$ we will have generators $x_1/x_0, \ldots, x_m/x_0$.

(29) Proof of Theorem 2.5, equation 3 lines before end: I couldn’t figure out what this
says because of what I think is a double subscript in a superscript?

Aaron: I agree the notation is terrible, but I'm also not sure how to make this more streamlined - do you have any thoughts?

(30) Remark 2.6: To take D = α 0 D 0 we need your ghost divisors, right? And D 0 = 0?

(31) Remark 2.7: Save it for Remark 2.9, when I can make sense of it.

(34) (2.2): (Ugh, numbering!) Wait, why is this additional? It reads the same as before
Proposition 2.1. Seems like you should have this whole discussion about ghost divisors
much earlier in the section.

(38) Page 15, middle diagram: why the large space between the domain/codomain and the
definition of the map? (Squeeze down on the corresponding xymatrix, or whatever
package you’re using.) Same on top of page 11.

Aaron: Is he complaining about the sequences with three things that are k[w_i] \rightarrow k[\Sigma] \rightarrow R_D?
If so, the reason it is doing this is to match the \mapsto spacing on the line underneath it, which seems quite reasonable to me.
Am I correctly interpreting this comment?

(40) Bibliography
(41) [vdG08] reference is incomplete, what book? Same with [Bru08], I don’t think that’s
a book.
